blog post on (not) Hacktoberfest (#42)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2020-10-06-hacktober2020/index.md

---
title: Hacktober? Any Month is a Good Month to Contribute to rOpenSci
author:
  - Stefanie Butland
date: '2020-10-06'
slug: hacktober2020
tags:
  - hacktoberfest
  - community
  - R
description: How to find and contribute to help wanted issues in rOpenSci packages
# twitterImg: blog/2019/06/04/post-template/name-of-image.png
---

The title of this post refers to Hacktoberfest, a month-long event organized annually by Digital Ocean to encourage contributions to open source projects on GitHub. 
Unfortunately, this October, many maintainers are dealing with [spam pull requests](https://blog.domenic.me/hacktoberfest/). 

> So instead of issuing a general appeal to participate, we're pointing you our new [Community Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/)'s section dedicated to our open [Issues List](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#issues).

Reviewer: _you to our new_

Along with showing you how to find help wanted issues in rOpenSci packages, it provides suggestions on etiquette to maximize the chances that your effort will be appreciated by a maintainer.  

In 2019, 117 people made their first-ever GitHub commit to rOpenSci. We are excited to welcome code and non-code contributions from new and more seasoned coders at any career stage, and in any sector. 

## For package authors 

> - **Make your project collaboration friendly** by including a [code of conduct](https://devguide.ropensci.org/collaboration.html#code-of-conduct) and a brief contributing guide that tells people how you would like them to interact with your project.

Reviewer: point to a contributing guide?

Reviewer 2: we have a collaboration guide in the dev guide! https://devguide.ropensci.org/collaboration.html :grin:

- **Label your issues** so people interested in contributing can find them. We recommend `help wanted` (no hyphen), and where appropriate `good first issue`, or `beginner`.
- **Include future plans for your package** in the README and open issues to address aspects of your plan.

## For potential contributors

> - **Address a “Help wanted” issue**. Take a look at the [Issues List](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aropensci+label%3A%22help+wanted%22+state%3Aopen&type=Issues). If you see one that interests you, take a look at the project’s contributing guide, then comment in the issue to discuss your approach with the author. Create a [pull request](#channels-github) and submit your solution.

Reviewer: Create a pull request ...

maybe instead say "After discussion in the issue" or similar to indicate that you start off with opening an issue instead of going straight to a PR, and ideally the maintainer says "yes, please send a PR". Some will just go straight to a PR, but I'd imagine most maintainers would appreciate an issue first

---
title: Hacktober? Any Month is a Good Month to Contribute to rOpenSci
author:
  - Stefanie Butland
date: '2020-10-06'
slug: hacktober2020
tags:
  - hacktoberfest
  - community
  - R
description: How to find and contribute to help wanted issues in rOpenSci packages
# twitterImg: blog/2019/06/04/post-template/name-of-image.png
---

The title of this post refers to Hacktoberfest, a month-long event organized annually by Digital Ocean to encourage contributions to open source projects on GitHub. 

> This October, many maintainers are dealing with [spam pull requests](https://blog.domenic.me/hacktoberfest/). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, this October, many maintainers are dealing with [spam pull requests](https://blog.domenic.me/hacktoberfest/). 
```

> So instead of issuing a general appeal to participate, we're pointing you our new Community Contributing Guide's section dedicated to our open [Issues List](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#issues).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So instead of issuing a general appeal to participate, we're pointing you our new [Community Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/)'s section dedicated to our open [Issues List](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#issues).
```

Along with showing you how to find help wanted issues in rOpenSci packages, it provides suggestions on etiquette to maximize the chances that your effort will be appreciated by a maintainer.  

> In 2019, 117 people made their first-ever rOpenSci GitHub commit (footnote clarify "to the rOpenSci GitHub organization"?). We welcome code and non-code contributions from new and more seasoned coders at any career stage, and in any sector. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In 2019, 117 people made their first-ever GitHub commit to rOpenSci. We are excited to welcome code and non-code contributions from new and more seasoned coders at any career stage, and in any sector. 
```

## For package authors 

- **Make your project collaboration friendly** by including a [code of conduct](https://devguide.ropensci.org/collaboration.html#code-of-conduct) and a brief contributing guide that tells people how you would like them to interact with your project.
- **Label your issues** so people interested in contributing can find them. We recommend `help wanted` (no hyphen), and where appropriate `good first issue`, or `beginner`.
- **Include future plans for your package** in the README and open issues to address aspects of your plan.

## For potential contributors

- **Address a “Help wanted” issue**. Take a look at the [Issues List](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aropensci+label%3A%22help+wanted%22+state%3Aopen&type=Issues). If you see one that interests you, take a look at the project’s contributing guide, then comment in the issue to discuss your approach with the author. Create a [pull request](#channels-github) and submit your solution.

> - **Address any open issue.** The majority of [issues](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aropensci+state%3Aopen&type=Issues) are not labelled “help wanted” but that doesn’t mean the author wouldn’t appreciate your help. Browse the issues in a package you use and see if there’s one you could address. This is a great way to get your favorite packages work the way you want them to!

Reviewer 3: I think American spelling is just the one "l"?
```suggestion
- **Address any open issue.** The majority of [issues](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aropensci+state%3Aopen&type=Issues) are not labeled “help wanted” but that doesn’t mean the author wouldn’t appreciate your help. Browse the issues in a package you use and see if there’s one you could address. This is a great way to get your favorite packages work the way you want them to!
```

## Advice from maintainers in the rOpenSci community

> Our [Community Call on Maintaining an R Package](/blog/2020/07/14/commcall-maintaining-pkg/) was a panel discussion with maintainers of both very popular and niche packages talking in part about how they handle contributions. The [summary post](/blog/2020/07/14/commcall-maintaining-pkg/), by Janani Ravi([OPENED ISSUE](https://github.com/ropensci/roweb3/issues/41) - JANANI'S PAGE NOT ON AUTHORS LISTING) and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/), is a goldmine of links to specific segments of the video and collaborative notes on responses to questions like:

Reviewer 3: As you pointed out in the issue, there is a partial author page, and it will follow this link when it's fixed, so I'd put in the correct link now.

```suggestion
Our [Community Call on Maintaining an R Package](/blog/2020/07/14/commcall-maintaining-pkg/) was a panel discussion with maintainers of both very popular and niche packages talking in part about how they handle contributions. The [summary post](/blog/2020/07/14/commcall-maintaining-pkg/), by Janani Ravi(/author/janani-ravi/) and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/), is a goldmine of links to specific segments of the video and collaborative notes on responses to questions like:
```
